# nlp-twitter-project

My first step was to determine my research question: Are tweets that discuss Barack Obama posted over the past couple of days with emojis happier than ones without emojis? I chose this research question because I was curious about what public opinion of Barack Obama has been like in recent days considering the multitude of scandals Trump is currently involved in. 

My next step was to stream around 75,000 raw tweets using the streaming API. I then parsed the tweets, encoded the emojis in them, and replaced line breaks with spaces to make the tweet text more readable to R. I also filtered out re-tweets and links from my tweets. I then split my streamed tweets up into two datasets: one dataset of 6,133 tweets with emojis, and one dataset of 4,553 tweets without emojis, leading me to analyze 10,686 tweets in total. I originally streamed less tweets, but later decided to stream more to make my total number of tweets I analyzed go to above 10,000 after filtering out re-tweets.

I decided to conduct two sentiment analyses on each set of tweets: NRC and Syuzhet. I first conducted the NRC sentiment analysis in which I got the NRC sentiment scores for each set of tweets, breaking them down by emotion. After preparing the NRC sentiment data for graphing by combining the NRC values of the two datasets into one new data frame and putting it in tall format because of how the two tweet datasets were being analyzed in one, I created a double bar graph in ggplot to compare the NRC sentiment analysis results between the two tweet datasets side by side. After first making the graph with sentiments on the y axis and scores on the x axis, I flipped it to make it look like a regular bar graph because I am personally used to that format as opposed to having the sentiments on the y-axis, which disoriented me. I kept the blue vs. pink bar color scheme because I liked the contrast between the darker blue and lighter pink. The graph shows tweets referencing Obama that contain at least one emoji over the last couple of days tend to be more positive than ones without emojis. It also shows how overall, recent tweets about Obama have not been too positive. 

I then conducted a simpler Syuzhet analysis in which I got the mean Syuzhet scores for each set of tweets. After preparing the Syuzhet sentiment scores for graphing by combining the Syuzhet scores into one data frame, setting the column names for it and making sure the scores column was numeric, I created a regular bar graph in ggplot to compare the single Syuzhet sentiment analysis scores between the two datasets. I kept the scores on the y-axis for the same reason as my NRC sentiment analysis graph. I kept the axes, color schemes and overall text on each graph consistent. Due to the negative Syuzhet scores of both datasets, I made the y axis range from their scores of -0.06 to positive 0.06 which a solid thin black line at y=0 to highlight to the viewer how both scores were negative. It surprised me how both scores were the same, despite each dataset's differing sets of Syuzhet values before the means for each dataset were calculated. The graph shows how overall, the tweets about Obama have tended to be evenly negative, but neither have been extremely negative.
